---
layout: post
title: HAM Radio -- Amateur Way
category : hobbies
tagline: "Where comunication is in your own way"
tags : [electronics, hobby]
comments : true
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Do you ever experienced No signal strength/Communication error using your Mobile/PDA ? Did you think of situation, when your mobile carrier's tower system crashed due to Cyclone,Earthquake or technical problem? During abnormal conditions, the only Communication you can rely to Help All Mankind is HAM Radio.

HAM Radio is for anyone who likes to communicate with others via wireless technology, It is also for anyone who loves experimentation. Licensed Amateur Radio Operators Communicate with each other in nearby places, across the country, around the world or even with the astronauts in the outer space. Amateur Radio is a worldwide group of people who communicate with each other over a wide frequency spectrum using many different types of wireless transmitting modes.

### Heard somewhere about Spectrum, frequency??
Every Wireless technology you can imagine has its own little frequency band:
• Alarm Systems 40 MHz
• Cell phones 824-849 MHz
• Bluetooth 2.402 GHz – 2.480 GHz
• Standard Cordless phones 40-50 MHz
You might acquainted more with terms spectrum,frequency bands etc during 2G Scam and S-Band Spectrum Scam. OK, then what is Spectrum? Who Controls Spectrum allocations?

Spectrum is a limited natural resource and World Governments realizing the
scarcity, cost and hence generating good revenue. In India, Wireless Planning and Coordination wing, Ministry of Communications is responsible for frequency
spectrum management. It caters to F.M & A.M Radio bands, Mobile Carrier bands, TV Broadcasting, Broadband, Military and police needs and corporate deals.

Corporates and FM Radio Companies investing lakhs and Crores to own their little band. For Example 98.3 MHz is a single frequency owned by Radio Mirchi to Broadcast Music for Commercial Purposes.

Do you know you are eligible to get various frequencies at free of cost!! Yes, in India certain frequencies are allotted to licensed HAM Operators aged above 12 yrs to
operate their Amateur Stations.

For Instance,
VHF : 144-146 MHz
UHF: 434-438 MHz and 1260-1300 MHz
HF : 3500-3700 Khz, 3890-3900, 700-7100, 14000-14350 and lot more bands.
Imagine, Thousands of frequencies in each band are allotted for HAM's..........

## What types of people you can meet as HAM ?
If you walk down a street, you’ll pass men and women, girls and boys, and people of all ages, ethnic back grounds and physical abilities.
They are Astronauts, Engineers, Doctors, Teachers, Students, Housewives, Politicians, Movie artist, Kings and workers like bankers, nurses, etc., Any of them
might be a ham you will meet on radio whom, you never met but talk to them on the air.
What other exciting things You can look forward to on HAM Bands?
You might catch yourself excitedly calling a Russian cosmonaut in space or a sailor on the Coast Guard’s ship. You could be linked via packet radio with an US ham, a Parliamentarian or a king operating the Amateur Radio station aboard, or someone who is building the Transmitter & Receiver.
On the other hand, a relaxing evening at home could find you in a friendly radio conversation with a ham in Kentucky or Frankfurt. Unlike any other activity, Amateur Radio knows no country boundaries and brings the world together as good friends. Although talking with astronauts isn’t exactly an everyday ham radio
occurrence, more and more hams are doing just that, as many NASA astronauts are ham radio operators.
## HAM's You might know:
As said earlier, HAM's come from all walks of life:
Students, Teachers, Doctors, Engineers, Architects, Businessmen, Scientists, Film Stars, Kings and Prime Ministers making it a well knit international fraternity. Someprominent radio amateurs are
late Prime Minister Sri Rajiv Gandhi(VU2RG), Smt.Sonia Gandhi(VU2SON), Mr. Amitabh Bachchan(VU2AMY), late King Hussein of Jordan(JY1), Actor Kamal Hasan(VU2HAS), late astronaut Kalpana Chawla(KD5ESI) and there are many more popular personalities...

## Research and Experimentations:
Once you become HAM, you are permitted to experiment on Radio signals and Communications, wattage power, antennas, transceivers etcetera. You can collaborate
with enthusiasts worldwide, who are working on same project. Another favourite activity hams enjoy is building their own radio equipment. Hams proudly stay at the forefront of technology, continually being challenged to keep up with advances that could be applied to the activity. Many have an incessant curiosity and eagerness to try new techniques. For a real challenge, you can try operating using low-power.
Some enjoy operating with only 1 watt, or even less. It’s certainly a challenge, but with decent antennas and skillful operating, ham enthusiasts can be heard around the world. One of the best reasons for operating low power equipment is lightweight, inexpensive and easy to build. Some hams use nothing but “home-brew” equipment. In Technologically advanced countries like Japan and USA there are 1.2 million and
7.2 million HAM's respectively whereas in our Country the Count is below 16000.

When the number of licensee's increase in our country, the activity prevails and the way science and technology understood by students can be modified better.
## License:
The Shortest path to Amateur Radio
When you are ready, enthusiastic. We are here to guide you, train you and support
you to become HAM. Vignan University-HAM Radio Club will take the Onus of educating more students towards the wonderful hobby -HAM Radio(In fact, HAM Radio is the recognized hobby of U.N.O ).

### For further details: Mail your queries to
vignanham@gmail.com
