---
layout: post
title: Gibbery Words on my day
category : articles
tagline: "Where would I be, Without Your Love"
tags : [personal, specialday]
comments : true
---
{% include JB/setup %}

	Thank You All for Your Heartily Wishes !!!

When I say, Today is Birthday! I got wishes by number of ways. Behest of vapid/ insensible and
laze idiot in me, I sated the events from morning!

Looking in....

	1. Few Phone Calls on my mobile that woke me up, of course in my late night deep sleep!!

	2. Calls on My Land line

	3. Lot Many SMS Wishes...

	4. Some friends/relatives who walked in to my house, to wish me.

	5. 2 Emails to both Gmail and Yahoo each.

	6. Ultimate Wishes from Social Networks Facebook and Twitter.

People want to Communicate with me on this Birthday through these Six Channels...
And Of course as always, many others who simply forgot my B'day despite all these Channels :-)

Guess what??
I'm in the state of euphoria that I get wishes from the persons, I didn't even met in my life (Say Anonymous).
And, My glee evaporates, when I notice that the Person, I love most doesn't wish me and often ask myself whether I deserve it?


I ponder at these two points and felt very interesting...
The Onus of picking the wishes is “mine” :
For any reason, If I don't pick my wishes, I won't get it. What I Essentially mean is, I don't log on to facebook/Twitter for a week, I would get my wishes “late”.
It is getting tougher to acknowledge wishes:
For me it is boring to send back an SMS and or revert back in all these many Channels but after all, My Acknowledgement mean a lot to the Sender.

In one felicitous phrase, Technology is killing Us. By its impact, Personal is referred as 'Impersonal
and Impersonal is backed as “Personal”.

Where would I be? Without Your Wishes Guys
Once again, I would like to thank and appreciate your blessings/wishes for me.

I shall remember all your acquaintances. It is you people, made me to count a wonderful day!
